# bmi702-project
- Some kind of AI scientist that can interact with a claims database (Inovalon, if we managed to get access to it) or MIMIC (inspired by https://github.com/hannesill/m4/tree/main), focusing on target trial emulation (or identification of possibilities for TTE) and causal inference.
    a) if using Innovalon, the database is very complex and accessing is quite complicated as it lives in an SQL server that does not accept external queries by default. Either we ask for a "backdoor" or we export a sample of the dataset to O2 scrath (I have already done this in the past) and we work with that. We would need to use an LLM, and we should ensure that no patient data is fed to the LLM directly (although it is heavily anonimized). Some cool agent orchestration, agent skills, MCP servers to access the db, we could borrow some of the architecture M4 has used for MIMIC.
    b) if using MIMIC, we need to ensure that we choose a narrow enough use case that we have enough domain knowledge, or augment it with an orchestration layer or ToolUniverse integration, because most of the techical work to do the SQL interaction and skills has already been done in M4. We could focus on the TTE and causal inference part, which is the most interesting from a scientific perspective, and use M4 as a base for the technical implementation.
- It would involve working with longitudinal health data, although the LLM would not reason over the data itself but rather write the code that will extract the conclusions from the data. We could give the agent access to tools for embedding longitudinal data, skills to perform causal inference, ensure it is familiar with all the literature and efficient estimation methods...
- We could also select a specific focus like cancer, but we would need to ensure we differentiate us enough from MEDEA.